---
layout: post
title: About Song FU
tags: SongFU
categories: Member Intro
math: true
---


Go to [Song FU](https://www.hy.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/1154/1947.htm) to see Prof. Fu's Chinese personal website!


## Song FU : 

- Professor of Fluid Dynamics (*Tsinghua University, Beijing, China*)
- Chairman of **AFMC** (*Asian Fluid Mechanics Committee*)
- **AIAA** Fellow
- **IACM** Fellow

## Education :

- 1978.9—1979.3：Department of Mechanical Engineering, Tsinghua University
- 1979.7—1980.8：Chichester College of Technology, UK
- 1980.9—1983.7：Department of Mechanical Engineering, Imperial College London (B.Sc. Honors)
- 1983.8—1988.7：Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Manchester (Ph.D.)

## Work Experience :

After returning from the study in UK in the summer of 1988, Song FU joined Tsinghua University and has been working there ever since. The following list provides the positions that he held in chronicle order:

- 1988.07:	   Lecturer, Dept. Engineering Mechanics, Tsinghua University
- 1990.12:	   Assoc. Professor, Dept. Engineering Mechanics, Tsinghua University
- 1993.12:	   Professor, Dept. Engineering Mechanics, Tsinghua University
- 1993.04-1995.10: Head of Fluid Mechanics Division, Dept. Engineering Mechanics, Tsinghua University
- 1995.01-1999.07: Deputy Director of the Institute of Engineering Mechanics, Tsinghua University
- 1995.09-2003.06：	Member of the Academic Board of Tsinghua University
- 2000.03-2002.06：	Director of Science & Technology Office, Tsinghua University
- 2000.09-Present：	Changjiang Professor of the Ministry of Education
- 2000.06-2005.09:	Director of the Institute of Fluid Mechanics
- 2002.06-2004.06:	Vice Dean of the School of Mechanical Engineering
- 2004.05-2011.01:	Deputy Dean of the School of Aerospace Engineering
- 2004.05-Present:		Director of the Center for Aeronautics Technology

## Academic-Related Activities :

- Chairman of Asian Fluid Mechanics Committee (AFMC), 2019
- Fellow of American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), 2014
- Fellow of the International Association of Computational Mechanics, 2012
- Vice Chairman of the Chinese Aerodynamic Society (2001-2011)
- Chairman of the Fluid Mechanics Committee of the Chinese Society of Mechanics (2007-2011)
- Associate Editor of *AIAA Journal*
- Associate Editor of *The Aeronautical Journal*
- Associate Editor-in-Chief for *Science China: Physics Mechanics & Astronomy*
- Served, previously or presently, as the executive member or member of the editorial boards for: for of *Acta Mechanica Sinica, Journal of Computational Mechanics, Journal of Engineering Mechanics, Journal of Aerodynamics, Journal of Aerodynamics*
- Member of the Advisory Committees：*International Council for Aeronautical Sciences (ICAS, since 2009), International Symposium of Turbulence & Shear Flow Phenomena (TSFP, since 2001), International Symposium of Turbulent Heat & Mass Transfer (THMT, since 2002), International Conference on Computational Fluid Dynamics (ICCFD, since 2005), Engineering Turbulence Modelling & Measurements (ETMM, since 1998), Asian Conference for Fluid Mechanics (ACFM, since 2008), Asia-Pacific International Symposium on Aerospace Technology (APISAT, since 2008)*

## Current Research Interests
1. Turbulence Modeling
- Modeling of transition flows;
- Modeling of turbulent flows with rapid distortion;
- Modeling of compressible and hypersonic turbulent flows;
2. Aerodynamics
- Compressor aerodynamics;
- Aircraft aerodynamics.

## Some Recent Archive Journal Publications

1.	Xi Y, Ren J, Fu S*. Hypersonic attachment-line instabilities with large sweep Mach numbers. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2021, 915: A44.
2.	Ren J, Mao X*, Fu S. Image-based flow decomposition using empirical wavelet transform. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2021, 906: A22.
3.	Xi Y, Ren J, Wang L and Fu S*. Receptivity and stability of hypersonic leading-edge sweep flows around a blunt body. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2021, 916: R2.
4.	Chen X, Wang L, Fu S*. Secondary instability of the hypersonic high-enthalpy boundary layers with thermal–chemical non-equilibrium effects. Physics of Fluids [J], 2021, 33(3): 034132.
5.	Chen X, Wang L, Fu S*. Parabolized stability analysis of hypersonic thermal–chemical non-equilibrium boundary-layer flows. AIAA Journal [J], 2021, 59(7): 2382-2395.
6.	Ren J*, Fu S, Pecnik R. Linear instability of Poiseuille flows with highly non-ideal fluids. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2019, 859: 89-125.
7.	Xu G, Chen J, Liu G, Dong S, Fu S*. The secondary instabilities of stationary cross-flow vortices in a Mach 6 swept wing flow. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2019, 873: 914-941.
8.	Li S, Li Q*, Fu S, Xu K. A unified gas-kinetic scheme for axisymmetric flow in all Knudsen number regimes. Journal of Computational Physics [J], 2018, 366: 144-169.
9.	Wang L, Hu R, Li L, Fu S*. Detached-eddy simulations for active flow control. AIAA Journal [J], 2018, 56(4): 1447-1462.
10.	Xu G, Liu G, Chen J, Fu S*. Role of freestream slow acoustic waves in a hypersonic three-dimensional boundary layer. AIAA Journal [J], 2018, 56(9): 3570-3584.
11.	Zhang C, Li Q*, Fu S, Wang Z. A third-order gas-kinetic CPR method for the Euler and Navier–Stokes equations on triangular meshes. Journal of Computational Physics [J], 2018, 363: 329-353.
12.	Wang Z, Wang L, Fu S*. Control of stationary crossflow modes in swept Hiemenz flows with dielectric barrier discharge plasma actuators. Physics of Fluids [J], 2017, 29(9): 094105.
13.	Ren J, Fu S*, Hanifi A. Stabilization of the hypersonic boundary layer by finite-amplitude streaks. Physics of Fluids [J], 2016, 28(2): 024110.
14.	Zhu H, Fu S*, Shi L, Wang Z. Implicit Large-Eddy Simulation for the High-Order Flux Reconstruction Method. AIAA Journal [J], 2016, 54(9): 2721-2733.
15.	Ren J, Fu S*. Secondary instabilities of Görtler vortices in high-speed boundary layer flows. Journal of Fluid Mechanics [J], 2015, 781: 388-421.
16.	Fu S*, Wang L. RANS modeling of high-speed aerodynamic flow transition with consideration of stability theory. Progress in Aerospace Sciences [J], 2013, 58: 36-59.
17.	Xiao Z, Liu J, Luo K, Huang J, Fu S*. Investigation of Flows Around a Rudimentary Landing Gear with Advanced Detached-Eddy-Simulation Approaches. AIAA Journal [J], 2013, 51(1): 107-125.
18.	Xiao Z, Liu J, Huang J, Fu S*. Numerical Dissipation Effects on Massive Separation Around Tandem Cylinders. AIAA Journal [J], 2012, 50(5): 1119-1136.
19.	Li Q*, Xu K*, Fu S*. A high-order gas-kinetic Navier–Stokes flow solver. Journal of Computational Physics [J], 2010, 229(19): 6715-6731.
20.	Li Q*, Fu S. On the multidimensional gas-kinetic BGK scheme. Journal of Computational Physics [J], 2006, 220(1): 532-548.
21.	Li Q*, Fu S, Xu K. A compressible Navier–Stokes flow solver with scalar transport. Journal of Computational Physics [J], 2005, 204(2): 692-714.
